hello welcome to the kitchen I'm Juliet
and today we're gonna make an amazing
volcano eruption cake but before we do
it we want to test out how it's going to
work don't breathe yeah so we are going
to do a really cool trick using diet
cola and some mints and what we're going
to do is we're going to drop them in and
see if we can create that huge explosion
on we're ready okay okay and I think we
don't want to do a cake that big do we
Lila so we're gonna start off by making
our sponge too that's gonna be the base
for our wait so we have got the
ingredients we've got some golden caster
sugar and some soft buffs up and we've
got some vanilla extract in there we're
gonna cream it up so it's nice and
fluffy and we're gonna add in our eggs
and our self-raising flour so that's
definitely nice and creamy and fluffy
isn't it so what we'll do we'll add our
eggs slowly now there you go pop it in
the divider so now we're gonna add our
flour in just about a third at a time
perfect okay we're going to color some
of it red 450 grams of cake batter into
this bowl you're gonna squeeze some red
in here to make it a nice bright red
color do you want to squeeze that in
we're going to make what a mountain
shape of the volcano so we're gonna use
a cake tin and we're going to use a bowl
to create two sponges that we can put
together so we need to way into this it
takes in 450 grams of the white cake
batter the rest of the white cake batter
into the bowl no we're now going to
weigh 175 grams of the red into this tin
put the rest of the red into that bowl
do Bhonsale I've just washed my hands
and now I've got red all over my fingers
again we don't need to mix it too much
because I wanted to keep the different
patterns well done so we can put those
in the oven now I want to make sure it's
cooked in the middle so about 40 to 50
minutes welcome back our cakes are baked
so now we have a volcano eruption
station don't wait yeah we've got
everything we need to create this cake
so we're gonna start off by building our
volcano so we've got the kit of the
sponge in the bowl and sponge from the
tin so I'm just going to take a knife
and just trim down the hunky bit and I'm
gonna trim down the lumpy bumpy bit from
the tin just so it doesn't wobble too
much so I'm also gonna cut this in half
because I'm going to use a cutter which
you'll see you'll see why in a moment to
create our eruption effects we are going
to use a plastic bottle and we're gonna
hide it inside the sponge I happen to
have a cutter that fits so I'm just
gonna use a classic you want to do that
Delilah push it down and just put that
to one side so we're gonna use that
perfect so let's start by loading up our
layers and we're gonna stick it together
with a nice bit of red buttercream in he
go she wants to put them in there
brilliant so now we're gonna put the
next layer on fix that down that's it
there you go
over it goes same again people
buttercream just to stick it together
you can do the honors again Delilah
pop it on brilliant okay so we want to
hide this we want to disguise it we'll
add a little bit more buttercream it
just cuts a bit in a smaller hole in
there and then put that on there like
that that's it so now we've got our
secret bottle in there so let's roll
this marzipan out so we've done rolling
before haven't we Delilah yeah so it's
quite stiff to start with so I'm just
going to kind of give it a bit of a
squeeze and I'm just warming it up with
my family students have a go yeah can
you give me a nice sprinkling dust of
icing sugar there Delilah when you're
rolling out marzipan always make sure
you put plenty and icing sugar on there
because it sometimes sticks we want it
to be a nice big circle because we
obviously want it to cover the whole of
the volcano so that's why we twist it
around and keep it in Nice shape so
you've got a really big bit of marzipan
so if you lift it up it might tear holes
in it you know if you put your rolling
pin on your marzipan and just lift it up
like this and you can roll it onto the
rolling pin like that and now we can
kind of move it around let's get our
volcano just make sure it's in the
middle so I'm gonna go like that and
then plop it down there it doesn't
matter if you've got lumps and bumps
involved because it's gonna add to the
volcano of shape isn't it so should we
just kind of press it down and just make
sure yeah that's it and then on the top
fit what I'm gonna do is just carefully
peel that way just so we don't have any
poor falling in the bottle we're gonna
cover it now in melted chocolate and
then we're gonna stick we've got all of
these really fun chocolates and sweets
which are gonna be like cold rocks and
are mounting our volcano Mountain so
we're gonna stick them on look at that
that looks yummy doesn't it yum yum yum
so now we're gonna paint chalk ler all
over the volcano right what do you think
Delilah I think that's all done yeah now
we can put
all our decorations so the chocolate
rocks and it looks like it's on fire now
jaqen we're nearly there yeah so it's
time to create the eruption excited we
are going to use some diet cola and what
I've got in here I've got a little bit
of red food coloring in there because
we're gonna make you look really red so
I've actually measured the amount of
liquid that can fit in this bottle or
earlier because I'm not silly am I
Delilah no I'm not silly so that's gonna
be 313 milliliters that we can pour into
there now you want to very carefully
just mix it don't budge it too much what
if it's just mix the red colouring in so
what we're doing is just mixing the red
colouring it's a small amount of liquid
first
so now we'll put the rest of the cola in
so just really slowly down the side of
the jug there's a Lila okay so we have a
packet of mints and we're gonna drop
these inside the liquid the secret is to
drop them in all at once as fast as we
can make a little funnel with this paper
now I think before we do it should we
decorate it with some new your dinosaurs
yeah just making them kind of slightly
climbing up maybe okay I'm going to
carefully pour this in okay
you got all the mints right you can pop
those mints down that tube like that
okay pop your last mini in there Delilah
okay we're ready so just to mention we
are gonna get an eruption but and all
the code is gonna come out but it's
gonna be fine it's not gonna soak in the
cake because we've painted it in
chocolate which is oil-based so it's not
gonna soak in it's just gonna pour all
over the sides and just be really fun
really so let's switch we do it okay
ready
wow that's so cool
love it wow so cause it's love what you
doing
Julian so now she put the smart person
yeah.well have you all enjoyed that
video for more videos check out the BBC
good food YouTube channel season
[Music]